Hey everyone, what is up?
This is one of the most universally useful sections of the course.
We're going to learn about the common technologies and terms used in most software companies today, but
that you're going to hear a lot in your
day to day life as a product manager.
A large number of product managers start out as engineers first, or have some sort of technical background, like computer science.
However, you don't absolutely need to be
an ex-engineer to become a product manager.
You can come from all sorts of backgrounds.
You don't even need to know how to code, but you do need to
understand how the most common technologies work.
In other words, you don't need to be an engineer,
but you need to know how to speak like one.
All right. So why should you learn about technology?
Well, having a foundational understanding of technology
behind the products that you're building helps
you out in three really big ways.
Number one: it gives you an understanding of
what can be realistically built.
You won't have to ask engineers what is possible
every time you talk about solutions or features for users,
or whenever other departments ask you technical
questions, you don't have to go bother engineers and say,
"Oh yeah, I'll check with the engineers on that one."
Number two: it helps to build a great relationship with engineers.
If you're leading a product team with a group of smart engineers,
they want to know that the person making
the product decisions has both a respect for the
work they do and knowledge of how it works.
Being technically incompetent and unwilling to learn
is a really easy and fast way to losing respect
from your engineers and your team.
Alright, so number three:
knowing about technology helps you understand the impact
of the decisions that you're making. Every decision
you make about the product has a long lasting technical implication.
If you build a product that needs a new database, or a
feature that needs a new database, then that means
that some engineer has to maintain that database,
and they have to build it in the first place.
If you later decide, as a product team, with everyone else,
to get rid of that feature, then guess
who's going to have to get rid of that database and
figure out all the stuff around what happens when
you remove it from the system - does it affect anything else?
Obviously, the engineers have to do that.
So this creates a lot of work for the engineers.
That's why it's important to ahead of time understand
technology, so that when you're thinking about
features and product decisions, you know, in the back of your head,
"Ok, what type of work is this going to make the engineers do,
and then, what is the risk here if we
remove this in the future?" Anyways,
I'm really excited to talk about this section,
this is one of my most favorite sections of the course,
and this, being technically adapt and familiar with technology,
has been, I would say, by far, one of the
biggest benefits to my career as a product manager.
All right, let's get started.
I'll see you all in the next lecture.